# odin_javascript_3_restaurant_page

Preview: https://jonro2955.github.io/odin_javascript_3_restaurant_page/

The 3rd project in TOP's Full Stack JavaScript Curriculum focuses on ES6 modular programming using Webpack (separating the JS source files into multiple modular files then compiling/bundling them into a single production file).

All content on this website is dynamically rendered using JavaScript and Webpack. A single div placed inside the HTML body is used as an entry point to insert all JavaScript-generated content. The source scripts are organized into multiple JS file modules and then bundled into a single output file called main.js using Webpack. Webpack compiles the source files into a single production script rather than having to load each source file into HTML using script tags for security and performance. The main source file, index.js, imports functions from the other JS file modules, with each module handling the contents of a specific part of the webpage. For instance, the header.js module exports the function that loads the navigation header, the about.js module loads the about page, and so on. The click listeners and content insertion/deletion logic is contained within the index.js file. 

Gitignore: The gitIgnore file simply tells git not to track the large folder named: node_modules. This is because the node_modules packages are only needed during the development process to build the main.js file.

Github Pages: Since the webpack process places the index.html inside a separate "dist" folder but GH pages is looking for an index.html in the root directory of the project, the following terminal script was required to set the "dist" folder as root:
  $ git subtree push --prefix dist origin gh-pages


# Introductions

Let’s use what we’ve learned and take a chance to continue practicing DOM manipulation by dynamically rendering a simple restaurant homepage! By the end, we are going to be using JavaScript alone to generate the entire contents of the website!

Note: DOM elements should be created using JavaScript but styling can be done in a separate CSS file.

Start the project the same way you began the webpack tutorial project. Run "$ npm init" in your project directory to generate a package.json file.

run "$ npm install webpack webpack-cli --save-dev" to install webpack to the node_modules directory of your project.

Quick tip: the node_modules folder can get really big. It is customary to add a .gitignore file to your project so that you don’t have to sync the contents of node_modules to github. The dependencies that are stored there can be installed from your package.json by running npm install, so you don’t need to sync them.

Create a src and dist directory with the following contents:

an index.js file in src

an index.html file in dist. Go ahead and link the main.js file in a script tag. main.js is the file that will be generated by webpack.

create a webpack.config.js file that looks just like our file from the tutorial.

Set up an HTML skeleton inside of dist/index.html with single <div id="content">.

Inside of src/index.js, write a simple console.log or alert statement and then run "$ npx webpack --mode development". Load up dist/index.html in a browser to make sure everything is working correctly.

Quick tip #2: if you run "$ npx webpack --watch", you will not have to rerun webpack every time you make a change.

Create a bare-bones homepage for a restaurant. Include an image, headline, and some copy about how wonderful the restaurant is. It’s okay to hard-code these into the HTML for now just to see how they look on the page.

Now remove those elements from the HTML (so leave only the <html>, <body>, and <div id="content"> tags) and instead create them by using JavaScript only, e.g. by appending each new element to div#content once the page is first loaded. Since we’re all set up to write our code in multiple files, let’s write this initial page-load function inside of its own module and then import and call it inside of index.js.

Next, set up your restaurant site to use tabbed browsing to access the Contact and Menu pages. Create tab-like navigation links at the top of the page and attach click listeners with CSS styling applied as well. 

Put the contents of each ‘tab’ inside of its own module. Each module will export a function that creates a div element, adds the appropriate content and styles to that element and then appends it to the DOM.

Write the tab-switching logic inside of index.js. You should have event listeners for each tab that wipes out the current contents and then runs the correct ‘tab module’ to populate it again.

If you are using GitHub pages to host your completed page you need to do a tiny bit more work to get it to show up. After running webpack the full bundled version of your site is available in the dist folder, but GH pages is looking for an index.html in the root directory of your project. The following terminal script is required to set the "dist" folder as root: "$ git subtree push --prefix dist origin gh-pages"